hey that's the Brian Kemp from Jordan I
heard they kind of hear me all right I
can hear you fine thank you very
just want to thank thank you all for the
constant communication applaud the move
to stand theme up at level one precinct
HHS and all that they have done
I had just three quick things for you
why I just want to encourage you all to
leave the directive for the National
Guard's with the governors okay as you
all know I think we were on the front
line of the fight you know we're in the
fight with you but I believe that we can
best make those directives good based on
what's going on in our state I like that
idea Brian that's done I like it
[Music]
as you all know we had many passengers
from the Grand Princess in Georgia
almost 500 they were from all over the
country we were glad to work with you
all to support our neighbors from other
states including everyone Georgia's
thank you we're down to about 200 people
there right now we have got things
working very well there but I want to
encourage you when those ministers leave
I would like for you to consider leaving
that facility stood up to help us with
the surge that we're seeing in our
especially metro Atlanta area hospitals
so just want to keep that on the table
and then the third thing and I will pass
this along to you this is just kind of a
big idea if you will as the stimulus
packages continue to move through the
Congress we created an economic impact
subcommittee of my coronavirus task
force they had a recommendation and we
just got this not too long ago but we've
been vetting it all morning but one
to help the states and these struggling
revenue environments that is unlike the
recession when things went down slowly
which states had time to prepare at the
end of the year we're all facing drastic
revenue drops and I did a block grant to
the states to help fill revenue
shortfalls would be something I'd like
for you to consider and also we had a
idea on the unemployment insurance but
I'll get back to you all for
consideration
[Music]
thank you very good thank you very much
and we will consider everything you've
said thank you very much okay who's next
[Music]
on flexible block grants to allow us to
continue to serve our people we're doing
everything we can to get the strategic
and so fill try try what you can do the
best you can to get what you can
actually get and we're also having a lot
of things produced that frankly nobody's
ever seen anything like this before but
do the best you can we're going to
consider that very strongly
[Music]
only a seven days we can start to exceed
our capacity to deliver health care and
even after surging we may only get an
additional three days and so I'm asking
for help in terms of surging our medical
capacity here in Louisiana we've got
some requests in for example we have a
VA hospital in New Orleans we've
requested to be able to search patients
there we haven't received the response
yet we increase our capacity what is
your second request John bill what's
your second request please the second
request okay we're gonna look at that
and I'm gonna try and get you immediate
approval on the hospital I know about
the hospital request and so we're going
to speak to the VA we receive we get
immediate at least as a switch but we'll
get that approved for you one way or the
other all right okay thanks a lot
general
I might ask very briefly while we're
waiting for the next governor to come on
Mike if you could say a few words and
also Debra if you could say a few words
would be great and then we have another
governor teed up please
great again thank you thank all the
governors for your leadership your
partnership in confronting the
coronavirus a few updates and a few
requests for each one of you I want you
all to make your citizens aware the
President signed the family first
coronavirus response act last night
coronavirus testing is free paid sick
leave family leave for caregiver givers
food assistance to the needy get the
word out to your citizens and be very
helpful on testing
as we've said many times and worked with
many of you through your state labs and
in certified labs and of course if the
CDC testing is now available in all 50
states we want you to be aware that if
you have questions about the
availability of testing in your state
you obviously can talk to your state
health department and health care
providers but I want every governor to
know that because of the public-private
partnership that the president forged
with our commercial labs Roche thermo
Fisher and as of last night Abbott
Laboratories are now coming online
literally by the hour and when they are
done we will have some 2000 labs stood
up around the country with the high
throughput testing your health care
providers will know where those
resources are your State Department will
know where their resources are and we
just encourage you to bring your team
together important to note that that
well now tens of thousands of more tests
are being performed literally every day
the bill the President signed last night
also included a provision that states
and private labs must report all
coronavirus testing results to the CDC
emphasize that dear State Health
Department your health care providers
encourage you maybe to pull them
together today before end of business
we're rapidly expanding testing around
the country but but as dr. Burks will
reflect in a moment we want to make sure
that we're getting the results of that
testing so that we can be informed about
that and of course that the American
people can have full visibility on that
testing as well she'll also explain we
will see as testing is ramping up today
and tomorrow we will see an increased
number of cases we want to give context
to you and to your citizens about that
on supplies President Trump has have
been engaging industry leaders in the
supply chain across the country and to
make sure that personal protective
equipment and medical supplies are
broadly available on the subject of
masks I've talked to many of the
governor's about n95 masks again in the
bill the president signed last night we
have literally unlocked tens of millions
of n95 masks what the president asked
the Congress to do and they did was we
extended liability protection to all
industrial n95 masks so those can now be
readily sold to your hospitals and
health care providers we urge you to
communicate that to your health care
providers your hospitals today to let
them know that that supply has
dramatically increased and they can
place orders
we also would reiterate if you can reach
out to your construction companies
they're in possession of lots of n95
industrial masks and the president is
urging all those builders and literally
hundreds around the country have already
done this to donate those masks to their
local hospitals and clinics on the
subject of ventilators we are currently
serving healthcare providers around the
country and suppliers and I'm pleased to
report to you that we have already
identified tens of thousands of
ventilators including ventilators that
can be converted to treat coronavirus
patients your action item on that and
your in your state should be you should
survey your outpatient surgical centers
and and your ORS to identify the type of
respirators that can be converted that
dr. Burks has been working with with
suppliers there's a changed vent that
has to be attached we've identified that
those are available but literally tens
of thousands of ventilators are now
going to be available because of because
of the survey that's currently underway
the other point that we wanted to
emphasize is at the direction of CDC and
the president's coronavirus task force
we are encouraging hospitals and every
American
phone elective surgery please explain to
your citizens that this will have a
direct impact on hospital capacity by
suspending elective surgeries it will
free up more space in hospitals
including respirators as dr. Burks
explained to me that many people that
require a respirator isn't because of a
surgery gone wrong and so this frees up
more of our capacity across the board I
know it's not lost on any of the
governor's here mr. president that by
standing up FEMA we you now have
essentially created a structure that
every governor is very familiar with in
dealing with disasters and emergencies
we have activated all emergency support
functions and interagency functions here
Pete Gaynor is here for comments and
questions
we intend to run all of the federal
response in support to States through
here at the National Response
Coordination Center and through FEMA we
this Center is fully operational
governor's I I want you to tell your
teams that this this NRCC will be
connected to your state's through your
regional administrators and your State
Emergency Operations centers this will
be very familiar to all of you any
questions that you have the only thing
that I would ask on the president's
behalf if there are issues that arise in
your state begin with your regional FEMA
administrator literally 20,000 people
work for FEMA there you all know what
incredible people they are and they're
ready to go to work to work your issues
so with that mr. president I might just
turn it over to dr. Burks with your
parishioner reflect on what we know
about the data and what we know about
the spread of the disease but thank you
then your bold leadership thanks for
what you're all are doing to implement
the president's coronavirus guidelines
it's an honor to be serving with all of
you
thank you Mike's president Deborah
mr. vice president you should have
received an analysis of the across the
country Kovach cases analyzed by state
and counties utilizing counties with
more than 50 cases that over 50% of the
cases are in three states over 50% of
the cases are in just ten counties so
it's the three primary states of
California Washington California
Washington and New York with the
addition counties of New Orleans and
Cook County we are very concerned to
remain concerned in urban areas where
mitigation and social distancing is
absolutely crucial the issue of
decreasing spread due to contaminated
counters and other things in restaurants
and bars as well as movie theaters is
absolutely critical so I know you're
concerned about your hospitals but
critically you need to make sure that
all elective medical and surgical
procedures and dental procedures have
been cancelled that that PPE is being
utilized and transferred to the parts of
your state that need it the most you
look at all elective surgery centers
those are your outpatient surgical
centers and that staff to be your search
capacity those ventilators can be
converted to be utilized the anesthesia
ventilators to be used as ventilators I
think as we all work together to solve
these solutions I think unlocking the
mass and the PPE from construction was
absolutely key as well as as well as
this ventilator situation I think the
federal government has been very
proactive and ensuring that we've
decreased bureaucracy of errors to
unlock these innovations we believe that
innovations will continue to come from
the field and we appreciate your
frontline workers who have been
informing us about their changes it's
important that we're tracking the data
on a county-by-county as as granny early
as we can because we can look at whether
Mitigation is working in those we'll get
feedback from your community this will
only be solved if every single person
in every single community takes
responsibility to ensure that following
the presidential guidelines that were
put out several days ago for the two
weeks of stopping this virus so we will
stay in close communication with all of
you through FEMA we're very excited
about the full activation of FEMA's
we'll be able to provide a dialogue both
up and a violent dialogue down so that
we can stay and close their
communication and so we can ensure that
we have prioritized all stockpile
elements based on the needs and the case
structure that has been reported
reporting becomes critical if we can't
see it we don't know how to unlock the
stockpiles so this both test negative
and test positives are going to be
absolutely essential as well as hospital
admissions and CCU that's so that we
understand exactly what is required from
the federal government Thank You mr.
president I thank you very much my good
Thank You mr. president just two brief
points on the subject of testing Admiral
Gua is with us the US Public Health
Service has built a model so many of the
states have already begun drive-through
testing are doing a yeoman's work in
that space and Anwar was here to
articulate to you how we can be
supportive of that going forward and
where we're rolling that out last point
the president asked me to emphasize we
want to encourage every governor on this
call to convene your leading healthcare
providers today to to take inventory of
your medical supply needs and we urge
you to remind them that they need to
look to their supply chains first we'll
prioritize accordingly and any states
that are in the middle of critical
response know that we will work with you
to get you what you need other states
you need to talk to your health care
leaders providers and make sure that
they are going to the supply chain and
we encourage you to to pull them
together today to to emphasize that
point Thank You mr. president thank you
very much Mike and I want to get back to
the governor's a
want to say to me something so big the
FDA has approved a compassionate use for
a significant number of patients we have
a drug called chloroquine derivation
would be hydroxychloroquine which I hear
even better about it's a common malaria
drug it's been available so therefore
the safety level we understand very well
it's been relatively safe and it showed
very encouraging early results really
encouraging if we if this works as well
as hopefully it might the FDA which
would have taken normally much longer to
do under our great secretaries but Fanta
the head of the FDA has been dr. hon dr.
Stephen Han he's been fantastic
he got it approved very quickly I won't
even tell you how quickly but let's put
it this way it's approved and we're
encouraging you to take a look at it we
have ordered a lot of it and you can too
it's by prescription it's a very
powerful drug for malaria and also for
various forms of very serious arthritis
but we think it has a very serious very
good impact on what we're talking about
with respect to the virus so you'll take
a look at that and you can coordinate
with us but I think to me that's a game
changer you know about the vaccines are
fine but that will be a while before you
can test them because you have to leave
quite a bit of period we are making
tremendous progress on a vaccine but it
still takes a long while to test it
we're also studying this and other
promising therapies which is a therapy
produced by Gilead and that would be
REMS it's called REM d'Ivoire REM
Nessebar and it shows great promise and
reg in Iran was a company which is also
working very hard on a drug and it's
also they're doing very well they are
the ones that came up with a very
successful
solution to Ebola and they've been a
fantastic company so we have some great
things but the job the ones that I
mentioned are very good but especially I
think if you look at the first mention
could be a absolute total GameChanger
and with that I think we'll go back to
the this is my prescription
but states can issue it and we have it
approved by the FDA and I think it's
going to be something that will be very
interesting to see we're going to know
very quickly but we've had some very
good tests and it's been successful so
let's take a look to me that's probably
the most important thing that anybody
can say if it works
but we have it approved for safety and I
want to thank the FDA for acting so
quickly it was incredible how quickly
this was something that would have taken
years and they got it done
almost immediately based on the past
history of the drug thank you very much
who is the next governor please hi Pete
thank you good thank you very much for
all your leadership and the
vice-president appreciated absolutely
the key things we're here for people are
around PPE and testing so you're on the
right track with that we need to expand
the access for those I got three quick
things to bring your attention one is
reagents to process the tests so once
for example somebody's been swab and we
have a test kit sending it to our lab or
working to conserve the reagents but I
think some of my colleagues are actually
out so if you can put some attention in
the CDC to how we can make sure we're
getting reagents out to everybody so we
can actually process the tests we're
getting okay that would be a key thing
second thing child care following your
director for Monday you know we've
reduced those color groups to ten people
but we need to pop up an alternative day
care especially for our first responders
public health officials anybody involved
with Public Safety so we need a waiver
from the finger
I'm going to be able to do that quickly
so I want to put that on your radar
screen to be able to see if you can have
somebody take a look at that good and
then finally uh guidance from special in
it from the Department of Education for
the free appropriate education
requirements please ask somebody to work
with the chief state school officers on
a temporary approach the recent magnet
was put out actually created more
consternation more concern
I've got attorneys and some more schools
telling our teachers they can't do
anything because they're gonna get sued
because of the faint requirements so if
we can have some temporary guidance that
allows us more flexibility you know our
schools again are Outbrain without
students in them we'd like to be able to
use them for other things and that's
good we'll get right back to you on that
Pete thank you very much great job
you're doing thank you okay who's next
governor who's our next governor
next
mr. president vice president this is
governor Baker from Massachusetts first
of all I want to thank you for signing
the family first act that will certainly
provide needed resources to all of us
and now obviously echos made that more
flexibility is better than last look
right back to additional federal support
just to the way we all work I just have
two things on the PPE issue which
obviously is a huge issue for all of us
the first is a little bit about the
guidance you're gonna offer particular
some guidance on how the implementation
of the defense production act is going
to work with respect to trying to man up
and generate additional capacity around
the PPE stuff and then the second thing
and I'm gonna quite sure what to do with
this so I'm just going to throw it out
there for you we took very seriously the
push to do made previously on one of
these calls that we should not just rely
on the stockpile and that we should go
out and find right then put in orders
and try to create pressure on
manufacturers and distributors and I got
to tell you that on three big orders we
lost to the Fed so my question is could
you give could you give some of these
guys some some guidance about space are
doing what the feds want and trying to
create their own supply chain on this
people should be responsive tonight
because I got a feeling that somebody
has the chance to sell to you and to me
I'm one of those all right charlie thank
you very much well we do like you going
out seeing what you can get if you can
get it faster and price is always a
component of that also and maybe that's
why you lost to the feds I'll tell you
that's probably why but I'm gonna I'm
gonna ask Mike to discuss that because
we have some I think brand new
information please like well Charlie we
will take that back and I appreciate the
feedback Secretary of HHS is here and we
we want to facilitate all the states and
the health care providers in your states
to be able to access that
supply chain as it becomes more robust
specifically on the defense production
act the the president the president has
has activated the defense production act
but he's not initiated any other action
underneath it right now what I can tell
you is as the president has brought
together leaders of business and
industry and supply chains I think mr.
president you put it well when you talk
about the spirit in American business
about wanting to ramp up voluntarily to
meet the needs that our health care
providers have in this country is truly
inspiring and so the president has not
yet exercise his authority under the
defense production act he said he will
if he needs to but I think I think the
president's perception the team's
perception is now is American industry
is stepping forward very aggressively
and with the changes that Congress just
enacted and the President signed we're
going to continue to make to make more
and more PPE available and I will say
this too early for everybody the country
has really stepped up like I don't think
we've seen it in many many probably
decades it's incredible the way they've
stepped up so we hope we can get rid of
this thing quickly
okay next card thank you Charlie next
counter please chairman of the envier
first of all I just want to thank you so
much for this call today and I want to
thank you for the great communication
that you've had with all the governors
over the past few weeks it's been
tremendous mr. president thank you for
signing the second stimulus last night
and for your ongoing efforts to mitigate
the economic impact that we're all
facing and thank you so much for joining
vice president pence a former governor
to leave this crisis he's been terrific
and working with all of us and reaching
out to us Thank You Leon yesterday
yesterday we had a meeting of all the
governors at nga prior to this ball and
you know we were getting a lot you're
getting a lot of input you're being
bombarded by 50 different people with
different questions we try to
consolidate it down
kind of a group of concerns that got all
the governor's agreed on were sort of
our priorities and we talked with Doug
holster last night and gave those to the
White House and we want to just raise
those issues some of which you've
already covered already in the
discussion but I don't want to walk walk
through them just summarizes there are
25 30 different things all the
governor's were talking about but these
were the ones that were the most there
was most consensus on one one it was you
know trying to dedicate at least 50% of
the supplemental funding to the states
including some direct funding and acting
quickly on waiver requests you've done a
great job with all of this that all this
funding we are in a good position at the
state level to know the real needs and
get the money out faster to those some
of those small businesses that are
impacted you're doing the stimulus for
those industries that are being hurt and
getting those checks out to the people
that need them but we have the money in
the States we can really utilize that I
think faster and push it out sort of
like we do on other things with block
grants secondly we've talked about this
a lot but every governor obviously is
trying to work with you and bombarding
about things about how do we work
together to increase access to PPEs mass
test kits extraction kits and
accelerating the production and all of
this life-saving equipment ventilators
and we're working together but that's
obviously something all 50 governors or
at the top of their list third and this
came mostly from your appointees mr.
president the co-chairs of the Council
of Governors governor Hutchison and
governor EJ about the supporting title
32 authorization to give governor's with
more flexibility with their national
guards and it it helps us pay those
folks and get them benefits that we've
elevated we've activated 2,200 Guard
members in our state and this is nothing
I think the governor said against all
ten of you our point these are on this
call I believe at providing some got
number four providing some guidance on
implementation of the defense production
Act so we can kind of help work with
secretary a czar and give some thoughts
about how the states could be more
involved
of helping that with some of the
industries in our state and lastly
allowing us some more flexibility for
the completion of the census and the
Real ID because we're trying to not
force people into like our MBAs we've
waived licensing requirements so we
don't have people trying to get renewals
of licensing and yet Real ID requires us
to get all these people in there by
October first kind of five grand things
that all the governor's want to address
some of which you've talked about and I
just want to again thank you there's
been tremendous cooperation you have a
terrific team thank you know that's been
working and I want to try to limit the
people bothering you directly and
calling the vice president's phone and
blowing up cabinet secretary so
reiterate but I talked with the White
House about last night and that is you
mentioned it mr. vice president going
through the normal FEMA process so it's
great that you're being so willing to
help governor's personally but I think
things will happen better if you go
through feed your regional FEMA
coordinators and you got more people
addressing these issues but that's a
summary of it I just throw it out there
so thank you for well thank you Larry
and I think I think the FEMA is gonna go
great we've had so much we've done so
much work with FEMA unfortunately
recently on a on a big tornado in
Tennessee you know that and then last
year on a big tornado in Alabama and
plenty of hurricanes and we work also in
California largely in California the big
forest fires and FEMA there's a job like
no like no other and so I think there'll
be a tremendous I know there going to be
a tremendous help on the two points that
are relevant I'd like you to call Steve
minuchin I'll speak to him later
give him a little detail in those two
points please so that while we're doing
this with the Senate we're getting a lot
of cooperation from Democrats and
Republicans maybe you can make those two
points a little bit with Steve because
few people do agree with that okay thank
you thank you very much Larry thank you
okay next next governor please
mr. president if I might before the next
governor speaks I might with your
permission
Pete Gaynor could give us a couple
minutes I think Governor Hogan
we appreciate your affirmation of the
president's decision to stand up FEMA's
National Coordination Response Center
and and to have all the state requests
and resources funnel through a very
customary system here at FEMA but mr.
president with your permission yes
please like welcome National Response
Coordination Center and as the secretary
the vice president self has now
seriously FEMA is the leading federal
operations or as is leading federal
operations on behalf of the White House
corner task force what we seized the
whole of government response to the
pandemic like all of you we are prepared
to do this for the long duration for the
long haul the health and safety of our
employees and the American people is my
top priority as this as of this morning
the HHS crisis
action task force and other federal
partners have fully integrated into the
operations base here at FEMA's National
Response Coordination Center
additionally all 10 FEMA regional
response coordination centers around the
country have been activated to support
ongoing response efforts in each of your
respective states and regions
currently there are 50 states of the
District of Columbia five territories of
one tribe that have opted in and have
received the 501 B emergency declaration
of folk over 19 in support of this
FEMA's primary goal because ensure you
have the resources that you need this is
what FEMA needs from everyone
the FEMA regional administrators will
continue to coordinate closely with you
and your team's determine the type and
level support you need as you continue
to respond to this dynamic threat like
all Mercy's response is most successful
when is locally executed state managed
and fairly supported and we cannot
stress this enough at the state level it
is informed that your Emergency
Management and public health teams are
linked together governors if you have
unmet needs please ensure they have
committed to your respective FEMA
regional administrator they have a
direct line here to the NRCC in
Washington DC I also need your help
emphasizing that at the local and county
level they should first be following a
quest up through the state and then from
the state to the FEMA regional
administrators again locally executed
state managed and fairly support
recently today we issued guidance to all
states about what eligible emergency
protective measures are under the
Stafford Act so that was this afternoon
and governor's you see that shortly we
will also hear some guidance on giving
more definition about the defense
production Act I thank everyone for the
continued partnership in this effort and
as the president vice-president said we
will get through this together as a team
thank you very much Pete and in addition
to FEMA we have the very very talented
man who I've dealt with a lot on
building different things throughout the
country the general that you I think for
the most part you know general semmen
it--and that's the Army Corps of
Engineers and very much involved in a
couple of locations I know as far as
specifically and he's definitely very
busy but he's a good builder and that's
what you need is a good builder so thank
you very much general for being here
okay
next governor please
I don't know afternoon mr. president
it's Gina Raimondo from Rhode Island
hi Gina hi go ahead Gina yes yes I also
want to and my gratitude for your
transparency and especially the vice
president has been very gracious and
generous with his time and getting on
the phone with me a few times I very
much welcome the opportunity to work
with FEMA and I know we're in good hands
because prior to coming to these big
Pete dinner with my EMA director here so
you picked a fine man that's good his
name is Curt here's belief on the rope
that's great let me just I agree with
everything said I wanted to add a few
other points one is we are following
your direction and asking our hospitals
to end their elective surgeries for all
the reasons you've asked us to do that
that is however an incredibly important
source of revenue for these hospitals
and profits so as you are putting
together the next round of stimulus I
would ask you please to consider direct
direct and sizeable stimulus to our
hospitals there they're really bearing
the brunt of this okay the second thing
is and I talked to secretary of a new
tune yesterday and he agreed with this I
would ask you to think about the
short-term liquidity needs of states so
as our revenue is falling off a cliff we
we may need to the capital market for
kind of bridge financing to deal with
short-term liquidity and some sort of a
federal guarantee or federal incentive
do
would be helpful yeah and I think some
of us may need that help in a matter of
weeks not months so I just wanted to put
that on your radar and then I fully
fully support what has been asked for as
it relates to block grants because we
all of us are on the ground and need
some flexibility to quickly react to the
needs of our of our small businesses who
you know these guys are really
struggling and we're all going to have
to do our best to help them so thank you
thank you and by the way thank you
having a call incredibly helpful and I
appreciate it Thank You Gina very much
appreciate it very much
and we'll look into all of those points
very strongly thank you Gary please go
ahead
[Music]
amen all that's been said I heretofore
and we appreciate the work that's being
done on the suggestions that the states
is helpful as we you look at best
practices one of the things I'd like to
just suggest is we hear a lot of what we
can't do there's a lot of gloom out
there people are uncertain they're
afraid and we need to bring some
certainty if we can to when this is
gonna get at the end what's that what's
the how long we gotta tread water here
the stock market isn't kind of a
freefall and yeah as we looked at least
in my state of Utah I think around the
country the economy is still doing
pretty good it's we need to start
talking about what we can do there are
things we can do and there's best
practices what we could do is work
arounds and in probably we get to hear
from our people in the hospitality
industry about what could they do with
their restaurants maybe meeting in small
groups and still be able to keep people
safe from the spread of this food rather
than total shutdown so I'd like to hear
more about what we can do for example I
you agree to this mr. president golf
it's a great recreation a great activity
well we have very few people and a large
open space our golf courses ought to be
a place of recreation we probably have
Clarke areas we brought their liquor in
with our families and still have a
normalcy for our lifestyle so it's not
just what we can do but what we can do
and what we can find from best practices
to see what we can do with that innovate
and be able to succeed during this
trouble time so I like to hear more
optimism they give us hope and
conference in the future which I think
will translate to the public but I think
you're right a hundred percent and I
think we're going to have a we're gonna
be a rocket ship as soon as this thing
gets solved as soon as we beat the
invisible enemy it's an invisible enemy
and it's been vicious it's in over 140
countries if you can believe that 140
countries so it moves fast it's very
contagious but we've really stepped up
and a lot of good things are going to
happen and one of the reasons we're
doing the packages that you're hearing
about reading about and know about is
the fact that we think it's going to
come back really fast I think we're
poised to come back very very fast but
we have to get rid of this and we will
get rid of the virus and hopefully it'll
be sooner far sooner rather than later
thank you very much Gary appreciate it
thank you next governor please relies on
a lot of medical care professionals
coming across that border and my
colleagues maids away I think see the
wisdom and I'm grateful that they that
they've made them I wanted to just
quickly touch on the auto industry
obviously coming from Michigan might
across the country also have serious
industry and were concerned about
liquidity up and down the supply chain
and all the great people that have made
the backbone of our economy home for so
long and I'm just hopeful that as
conversations happen around industry and
we will keep this important sector front
and center because we are concerned
about ensuring that they have got some
path out there and back to prosperity of
what well thank you very much you're
right a hundred percent we're watching
the auto industry very much we're going
to be helping them out at least a little
bit and they've sort of requested some
help and it wasn't their fault what
happened so we'll be taking care of the
auto industry and I appreciate it very
much your comments thank you alright
next governor please governor from
Illinois I wanted to first express my
gratitude to your staffs and to others
working in the administration who we've
interacted with they've really done
yeoman work and being responsive to us
and thank you mr. vice president for
returning calls to us as we needed more
help with the answers to questions about
testing and actually that's why I wanted
to ask a question today we understand
areas drive through testing that's being
stood up across the country we hope to
see it in Illinois crime through testing
that the federal government has arranged
but we understand that there are only
about 5,000 tests that will be provided
to us in Illinois for these
drive-through tests testing centers and
then there's no more promise after that
and so I wanted to try to understand
in the month what will happen that
that's perhaps you know a day or two
days of testing okay these states have
done a lot of that themselves working in
conjunction with us a lot of the
drive-thru has been done by States but
and well maybe you could answer that
question please yes sir Thank You mr.
president mr. vice president a couple of
numbers for you right now we're very
effectively transitioning to large-scale
testing by leveraging all components of
our American healthcare system including
CDC and state public health labs all
care and hospitals and large commercial
labs let me give you a few numbers
between March 2nd and March 14th we made
available ten point four million tests
the United States population we
anticipated by March 28th that number
will be twenty seven point six million
tests according to the FDA so an
incredible surge in terms of supplies
which many of you I've worked with
probably about twenty individually the
FDA has made available a number of
options for supplies different swabs
different reagents if you don't have
culture medium you can use sterile
saline saltwater it works good everybody
has that that's on the FDA faq website
and in general the commercial market is
working extraordinarily well the CDC and
the public health laboratories to date
have conducted over 45,000 tests and the
clinical laboratories the large clinical
laboratories have now conducted over
63,000 tests of which 20,000 were done
just yesterday so this shows the
incredible ramp we do not have all the
tens of thousands of hospitals which
ambassador birx
is talking about I wanted to highlight
one before I get to your question that
the approval by Abbott the approval by
the FDA
the abbot testing system is very
important to your hospital systems
because it spans a little bit of a gap
between what's done interstate lab and
what's done at the large commercial
laboratories there are about 175 of
these systems throughout the country
150,000 tests were released yesterday
with about a million more coming over
over the next week these are in 175 of
your community hospitals and academic
medical centers VA medical centers and
they give you about 500 tests per day
within your hospital system now in terms
of the drive through this is the last
part we are standing on 47 sites in 12
states according to the state needs we
asked through the FEMA regional
administrators for what you need and how
we can support you some states need very
little support
some states need significantly more so
far only one week after we started we
will have several starting today and
likely more than a dozen starting
tomorrow and to be very clear we gave
the initial allocation based on what
your state told us but we want you to
work through your FEMA system we have
plenty of tests on the backside we have
plenty of supplies on the front side
work through your FEMA administrator to
give your requirements and we will bring
those back through the FEMA system to
meet them there's been great demand and
a great enthusiasm among the states for
these drive through centers primarily
for health care workers and we want to
support you we can certainly provide
more than 5,000 but we didn't want to
give away so much at the beginning and
so everyone got set up thanks sir Thank
You general take advantage of the
supplies that you're talking about
because the challenge out here is that
while you are providing test kits we
don't have that you pointed out the
reagent the swabs we're having to go out
on the market to find it but it's being
monopolized by this drive-through
program that the better
government is doing and and that we have
drive-through the hospitals have stood
up on their own I might add the problem
again is if we don't have reagent or the
swabs then we can't do more tests than
we're doing today the 5,000 that have
been provided are being provided to
Illinois for those drive-throughs are
not enough going forward and we really
need you know again reagents and swabs
in order for us to expand some more
rapidly are one less thing our hospitals
are doing just amazing work standing up
thank goodness at their own testing
capability and of course our state last
two months but we really need to supply
that the federal government and its
access to we are competing with the
federal government for you know general
that shouldn't be a problem would you
please answer that because everything
should be in very good shape it's
absolutely not true that the drive-thru
centers are monopolizing the market we
use the swabs and the swab kits not the
testing kits we get them through the
commercial market we use a very small
percentage of them when I was asked
about shortages yesterday I went right
to the commercial market got 200,000 and
shipped them to the states that said
they couldn't find them so please look
on the commercial market because they
are there so we will help you find them
or we will help you help you to access
them and again if you send your
requirements up with a FEMA system we
will work with your states to acquire
them or assist you in any way if we're
fully integrated into FEMA now it's been
great and only 12 hours we've got us all
side side by side so we want to help you
we appreciate the enthusiasm and there
will be more than 5,000 available to you
either the commercial market or we will
assist in fact last night we bought
250,000 swabs and they got distributed
all over - all over the country to the
various states and the states that
needed them the most so JB any problem
call me up but there should be no
problem with that at all thanks so much
Jimmy thank you thanks
Jimmy next governor please
this is Kristi Noem from South Dakota
Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president for all your hard work we sure
appreciate it I want to tell you a
little bit of my story and I need to
understand how your triaging supplies we
for two weeks were requesting reagents
for our Public Health lab from CDC who
pushed us to credit suppliers who kept
canceling orders on us and we kept
making requests placing orders the
morning we would expect the supply all
of a sudden we get a cancellation notice
and we're working through all the setup
channels and the federal government to
get it resolved until we ran out and
we're unable to cross them any tests in
the state of South Dakota because I have
the only lab that is operating today I
have no commercial outside laughs
whatsoever this morning and started
testing again which was good getting
there and we were only processing and
able to start processing this morning's
at high-risk samples as well found out
that one of my hospital system received
reagents when they haven't even been a
FDA approved lab and aren't even ready
to start processing yet so they've
received what I was trying to get for
two weeks when they're not even an
approved lab not even set up and running
and I'm trying to figure out how we're
dreaming supplies that we need
especially when I'm the only lab that
operates in the state and we were going
through the channels there correctly and
using and searching and asking I'm
probably the one that my other
colleagues were referring to that was
asking for reagents from all of them for
days all right we heard we got very good
that will never happen to you and it
will never happen to your state okay
I need is a governor will this is
secretary this asymmetry a czar we have
to want to make sure you get what you
need there there are many different
reagents that can be used so after this
call we'll get on with you to help make
sure you're getting what you need at
hospital I don't know how they got their
supplies they probably bought them on
the open market there's a trillion
dollars of open market supply that's
where most entities are buying this for
hospitals buy their supplies problem and
states can buy from but I'd encourage
you first please let your let that need
you know your FEMA regional director so
that it goes into your normal process
there but given this special issue here
that is a CDC test we're going to get on
these your team right away after this
all and we'll get that issue solved for
you there is tremendous supply Deb
please good is thermo Fisher got
approved there's there with its Fisher
labs and major hospitals in South Dakota
and I told them to prioritize on states
that had not received Roche commercial
assays and did not have LabCorp requests
or one of the others so your hospital
I'm not sure what you mean they're not
certified if they have a therosis thermo
Fisher platform they are certified to
run this assay under full FDA so there
will be a lot of commercial hospitals in
your state that will have access to
these commercial laboratories outside of
the CDC test I understand about your
state local labs and them using in your
public health labs using the CDC assay
but we're trying to strengthen your
individual hospitals capacity where
normal assays are performed for your
public Thank You Christy thank you very
much
next governor please Thank You Chrissy
next governor please go ahead
go ahead
I think we got caught up next governor
please I just want to be with the fence
act if we can get those logs going it's
gonna help us tremendously up here but
basically the request again we want to
thank you for yeah thank you Mike we'll
take care of that immediately very
quickly all right thank you
next please
yes I think that's good I think it's a
good idea Pete will do it through FEMA
you'll coordinate that so Peters here
will do it through FEMA that's the way
we want to do it okay what's next
[Music]
thank you very much we'll get it done
thank you very much all right we have
four more governors thanks let's go
who's next
hi Oregon is grateful for these calls
the ability to connect with your
administration and our needs are
reflected in the NGA letter that
Governor Hogan presented thank you thank
you very much okay on that call you pull
together with White House leadership
leaders of the BIA the Bureau of Indian
education meeting health services thank
you for your response number two of our
Western Governors you've heard it from
George New Mexico Rhode Island my
colleagues Pipers and then lastly $25
WTI oil prices to fill up with petroleum
petroleum reserve of the u.s. that will
save billions of dollars
[Music]
thank you Doug very much thank you okay
next please
unfortunately had to shut down the strip
in Las Vegas as a result of that and
while they're getting some compensation
and filing for unemployment anything to
help we could get from your in to help
with the facilitation of getting our
economy back going right we'd go a long
long way this is our
number one industry in demand yeah I
know but got other parts of the country
with the theme parts of what none of
these folks are lower weight sometimes
it would definitely be helpful if we
could include them in any recovery
package that is brought forward I think
it's a great idea thank you very much I
think I think it's something we'll be
thinking about it Thank You governor
next please we talked about the
ventilator crisis as we get further down
the road I know governor Inslee is there
at that point now whether and I've heard
rumors that the car industry might start
manufacturing him and then we talked
about using laser technology laser
printing to make the parts if FDA would
give us the standards and if Congress
and the administration and the admission
would help us a patent protection so
that we could get into the supply chain
an adequate supply of ventilators and
the filters to where that was one thing
we had to worry about in our supply
chain going forward that would be very
helpful okay and we can do that too
that's great we can do that easily thank
you thank you bred well ladies and
gentlemen thank you very much it's been
an honor to be with you we'll do this
probably often until this gets solved
feel free to call me the Vice President
anybody at the table anybody in the room
except for the media don't call the
media and we will see you at the next
one thank you all very much thank you
thank you everybody
you